Our lane departure warning system now has two functional safety requirements.
One requirement limits the steering wheel vibration frequency,
and the other requirement limits the steering wheel amplitude.
Now we have to figure out which part of the lane keeping the item will be
responsible for limiting the vibration torque and the amplitude.
The lane assistance item has three subsystems,
the camera, the display,
and the electronic power steering.
Let's take a look at the architectural diagram.
Logically, we could say that both the camera subsystem and
electronic steering subsystem could limit the frequency and the amplitude.
For instance, we could make a requirement that the camera subsystem
can only request a vibrational torque below a maximal threshold.
And we could also make a requirement that the power steering system
can only output a vibrational torque below the same limit.
But we want to reduce the complexity whenever possible.
The simpler solution is to only require
the power steering to limit the vibration no matter what the camera ask for.
Now the only relevant subsystem
from a functional safety standpoint is the power steering.
For the lane departure warning,
the allocation of the requirements to the architecture is straightforward.
Only an electronic power steering ECU is involved with limiting the vibration warning.
The two functional safety requirements are allocated to the power steering ECU.
We will also slightly change the wording in the functional safety requirements,
whereas before we said the lane keeping item had to limit the vibrational torque,
now we'll be more explicit and say the power steering, ECU,
will limit the vibrational torque.
Here are the final safety requirements: Functional safety requirement 1.
The electronic power steering ECU shall ensure that
the lane departure warning oscillating torque amplitude is below max torque amplitude.
Functional safety requirement 2.
The electronic power steering ECU shall ensure that
the lane departure warning oscillating torque frequency is below max torque frequency.
We can put the results in a table.
Note that we are using a simplified example.
Oftentimes, you will have
a functional safety requirement that gets allocated to multiple subsystems.